Let's go ahead and move on to the brush tool.
Now the brush tool is a very important tool in Photoshop especially in what we're going to be doing
.
So let's go ahead and select it.
It's this little brush icon that you'll see on the left hand side of your screen.
So go ahead and select it.
The hot key for it is the letter B.
So you can press be on your keyboard and that will also select it.
Now that we have a selected let's create a brush stroke.
So you do that by clicking on the screen and dragonet.
It's as simple as that.
You can draw squiggles with it you can draw smiley faces.
It's just like a normal paintbrush.
Now you can change the color of your paint brush by coming over here to the left hand left hand side
of the screen and selecting the color.
Now you can move your cursor around the color picker window and choose whatever color you'd like.
So let's choose a green.
Now we can create a green brushstroke.
There's different types of brushes that you can use in Photoshop and I'll show you where they're up
here and the right hand side of the screen.
It's this little icon that looks like a can with paint brushes in it.
So go ahead and select that and you'll see we have a wide array of brushes we can choose from so if
we go ahead and choose one that has a different texture to it let's increase the size so we can see
it.
You'll see that we get a different kind of effect.
The go ahead and play with those and see what kind of effects you can get out of them.
Now you can also change things with your brushes you have different options down here.
Let's select a brush that we can change all the options on.
So if you select this guy we can change the size oven.
We can also change the hardness of them which increases and decreases the heart and softness of the
edge of your brush.
We can also change the spacing between our brushes and the reason why you might want to do that is because
let's say you wanted to create a bunch of grass so you selected this grass brush.
Now you can increase the spacing and it's increased the size also.
And now you can create something that looks something like grass rather than having your brush really
close together.
And that does not look like grass.
Now there's also a way that you can change the size of your brush with hot keys which is what you're
going to want to do.
Because if every time you want to change the size of your brush and you have to come up here and manually
drag this back and forth it's going to take forever.
So the hot to change the sides of your brush is different in Mac and Windows.
So I'll tell you what they are for both of them.
So for Windows it's going to be old and then right click and drag your cursor back and forth left and
right and that will increase and decrease the size of your brush and Mac.
It's going to be Option Command and you'll do the same exact things option.
Man and then you'll just drag it back and forth and that will increase and decrease the size of your
brush.
Now while you're doing this you'll see you can also change the opacity by dragging your brush your cursor
up or down and what opacity is that's just how see through your brush is going to appear.
So right now we have about 100 percent.
So if we decrease it let's say we decrease it to say 30 percent.
Now when we paint with it you'll see that our brush stroke is transparent which is very useful for certain
things.
So that's about it for the brush.
So go ahead and play around with that.
Test it try some different things and you can go ahead and move on to the next part of the course.